
# Overall Logic for Inventory_plus application

## Products Master - Bulk import to be updated yet

Definition of products master data, Containing
→ SKU (Code) → main identifier for any product, unique
for each product variant.

other information → model, Brand, Category, description, reorder at etc.  
Our existing Products Master module has been updated by you to include toggle for serialized and non-serialized products already

## Inventory Module
As discussed earlier, Inventory of a product will track individual units with their serial numbers attached to main SKU of said product.  
All units to be tracked at different locations.

## Purchase Module
This module will handle creation of documents for purchase process and add inventory received to the inventory. Below i will explain flow of this process.

### Purchase Invoice process
User creates Purchase Invoice.   
User selectsProducts from search able product's list, Quantity, cost price(total cost) and (system fills Invoice rate and Tax automatically)
Selects Product, quantity, cost, (price + Tax)

Some Common fields at top for Purchase invoice
Reference # - (It is generated by system with this format.)  PI-(user's nickname)-DATE-XXX.
Supplier, Date, Document # (this is reference of actual document received with shipment, can be empty )
Notes
etc.

This purchase invoice will be in pending status and is editable later, can be printed, exported as PDF for record use or to send to suppliers  
all invoices will be shown on Purchase module main page is list form with option to open single invoice and edit if needed.
These invoices will not trigger inventory change yet

### Receive Stock process.
* User roles >> Warehouse worker and Manager and Admin can access this page for assigned locations only. 
* Page >> Stock Receive  
* Process for serialized products >> User either scans the products physically using android version of application with camera or manually enters serial # of received serialized products and selects main corresponding product from search able list (fetched from Product master data). some other data is stored along with each product received like date, time, user etc  
* Process for non-serialized products >> Similar process for non-serialized products, with auto generated serials, user enters total quantity and location for such products.
* This whole process creates a list of products received from a shipment. This process does not add the received products in the inventory yet but stay in a pending state. Managers will get notification on dashboard for pending receivables depending upon assigned locations.

**IMPORTANT NOTE FOR THIS PROCESS**
this page must work in offline and online status. while rest of our application is designed to be read only during offline but here we have to have logic to create pending write request for firebase database even if application is offline so when internet reconnects this data is synced to database. This is being implemented because warehouse worker will not have mobile data available all the time and warehouses do not have permanent internet connection in general. Also if the received product has not been defined yet in master data, user can manually write model of product for manager to add the product later and update stock normally

### Finalizing pending receivables
Manger or Admin sees pending receivables in dashboard. User goes to Purchase Module, creates a purchase invoice if not created already. Then goes to Stock Receive page and selects actual received products from list of products received by warehouse worker and attaches them to appropriate products for appropriate invoice. (we have to discuss the flow of this process further during development to make it fast and efficient.)  
this way a certain number of units will be added in inventory at specified locations, all linked together with a single Purchase Invoice reference #, invoice creation date-time and receiving date-time, receiving user(warehouse worker or manager whoever received products), and manager (who created invoice). we can use this data to then show reports and logs

## Sale Module
This module will handle creation of documents for sale process and remove inventory delivered from the inventory. Below i will explain flow of this process.

### Sale Invoice process
This is virtually similar to purchase invoice process with appropriate changes to cater for sale process.
### Deliver Stock process.
This is again very similar process. here scanned or manually entered serial number must match the already present inventory obviously. 

**IMPORTANT NOTE FOR THIS PROCESS**
This process must also work offline similar to receive stock process for same reasons.

### Finalizing pending deliveries  
again very similar to purchase process with minor adjustments for sale process.  
for non-serialized products use FIFO method to adjust stock levels in inventory 

## Stock Transfer
User access >> admin, Managers, warehouse workers  
### Process
user can select units or scan physical unit to add them to transfer list, location is automatically selected for serialized products, and location can be selected manually for non-serialized products, and then transfer units to another location. Follow FIFO for non-serialized products.  

## History / Logs / Audit
Every invoice is editable until finalized. Every operation should be logged with maximum information so can be used for history and reports. Every product should have its individual history as well history like
received quantity on certain date delivered quantity on certain date etc.


 